Euglossine bees (Hymenoptera, Apidae, Euglossini), important Neotropical pollinators of a variety of plants , are characterized by their very long proboscides , which allow them to exploit flowers with long tubes in addition to other flower types , . In contrast to other bees, however, the orchid bees employ suction feeding for nectar ingestion . As viscosity rises exponentially with the sugar concentration , , the suction feeding style is constrained by nectar concentration. This is visible in the fact that the optimal energy intake rate is achieved for approximately 1020% lower sugar concentrations (3040%) compared to the lapping style (; reviewed by ). Accordingly, such more dilute nectars are often found in plants with deeply corollated flowers visited by orchid bees (; and see ,  on crop samples of orchid bees). Orchid bees are nevertheless strong flyers, easily capable of rapid flight and covering long distances (23 km in one day ; 45 km within two days and distances of up to 95 km ). Males can be observed collecting volatile components for pheromone analogs (see , , , ), showing territorial display behavior and engaging in territorial contests with other males continuously for long durations of time (contests can last up to over an hour ; D. W. Roubik, pers. comm.; T. Pokorny, pers. obs.). The importance of sugar concentration for maintaining high metabolic activity raises the question on how orchid bees manage to overcome the constraint of suction feeding in order to cover their energy expenditure on predominantly dilute nectars. A higher throughput of nectar seems improbable to be the only factor accountable for such demanding flight accomplishments, especially in the light of the long timespans without visits to nectar sources (>1 h, see : contest duration; : odor collection). Nectar dehydration in the same manner as employed by other bees is rather unlikely. First, the euglossine proboscis is too long for such a procedure, as it reaches at least sternum I when held under the body and can in some cases even reach beyond the tip of the metasoma . Stretching the proboscis out with the droplet at the tip or around the whole proboscis, as described for other bees, therefore seems improbable. Second, reuptake of highly concentrated nectar droplets from the tip of the proboscis would likely be constrained by the increased viscosity of the dehydrated nectar (see ). Nevertheless, nectar water evaporation might be achieved by comparable means. In cage settings, male and female  spp. can be seen showing a conspicuous behavior reminiscent of that of nectar dehydration in other bees, which will henceforth be called tongue flicking. Tongue flicking in orchid bees differs from evaporation behaviors described for other bees in that the proboscis stays located beneath the bees body, and the regurgitated liquid is stretched out as a thin film between the different proximal parts of the proboscis. In this study we assessed whether the tongue flicking behavior serves to evaporate water from crop content for males of two sympatric species of  ( and ) that differ in size (13 mm/10 mm) and proboscis length (extended 16 mm/18.7 mm, see ).

