All previous studies maximized ethylene production under simulated constraints. However, Constrictor is able to function on any baseline state. To demonstrate this potential, we maximized growth (via the biomass reaction) in the core, iAF1260, and iJO1366 models, then applied Constrictor with 20% and 80% restrictions on individual reactions to search for modifications that increase ethylene yield. None of the baseline solutions produce ethylene when growth is the objective (), which is not unexpected, as there is no native motivation for  to divert resources towards ethylene biosynthesis. The baseline core achieves a maximum growth rate of 0.79 hr, while the genome scale models iAF160 and iJO1366 grow faster (0.85 hr and 0.92 hr respectively), likely due to differences in metabolites involved in the biomass reaction. When Constrictor is applied to the core model, no solutions result in ethylene production; however, expression states that produce ethylene are found when Constrictor is applied to iAF1260 and iJO1366 genome scale models. In either of the genome scale models, restricting L-glutamate 5-semialdehyde dehydratase reaction (G5SADs) results in ethylene production. Ethylene production is higher when G5SADs is modified by the major restriction factor ( and  in ) than when modified by the minor factor, though ethylene production is seen for either degree of restriction. G5SADs is a spontaneous reaction that is part of the proline biosynthesis pathway, which converts L-glutamate to L-proline. Limiting flux through this pathway increases flux through the L-arginine biosynthesis pathway (see ARGSL in mutant K in Table S5 in  and mutant L in Table S6 in ). As L-arginine is a reactant in the EFE reaction, restrictions in G5SADs allow ethylene to be produced when biomass is the objective. Interestingly, targeting the two upstream reactions in L-proline biosynthesis (GLU5k and G5SD) or the downstream reaction (P5CR) does not cause ethylene to be produced. Restricting the other reactions in the pathway actually leads to decreases in flux through L-arginine synthesis. The differences between restricting the spontaneous G5SADs and the enzymatic reactions GLU5k, G5SDs, and P5CR may be due to the cofactor requirements of the enzymatic reactions. GLU5k is ATP/ADP dependent, while G5SDs and P5CR are NADP+/NADPH dependent. As described in previous sections, cofactor balances are crucial for achieving maximum ethylene yields.

