The structure of gentiolactone includes a secoiridoid carbon skeleton. Iridoids are naturally occurring substances and are found in many medicinal herbs. They exist mostly as glycosides. Iridoid glycosides seem to be inactive but activated by conversion into hydrolyzed-iridoids by enzymatic hydrolysis of the glycosidic bond. H-aucubin, H-catalpol, H-loganin and H-geniposide have inhibitory effect on LPS-induced TNF- production, but H-swertiamarin and H-gentiopicroside do not . Previous reports showed that aucubin and geniposide suppress TNF- production via inhibition of IB- degradation ,. However, gentiolactone suppressed TNF- production without inhibition of IB- degradation or NF-B nuclear import, suggesting that gentiolactone inhibited TNF- production in a completely different manner from aucubin and geniposide. As another way of inhibiting TNF- production, several studies have shown that sesquiterpene, helenaline and parthenolide lactones interact directly with NF-B to inhibit DNA binding to NF-B . Anti-inflammatory activity of sesquiterpene lactones are mediated chemically by ,-unsaturated carbonyl structures, such as -methylene--lactone or an ,-unsubstituted cyclopentenone . Helenaline and parthenolide lactones also inhibit IB- protein degradation . Sesquiterpene lactones potently inhibit NF-B, but have toxicity because of their inhibitory effect on DNA and protein synthesis as well as hexokinase activity . In the present study, helenalin was observed to have a cytotoxic effect in RAW264.7 cells: in cultures exposed to 20 M helenalin for 24 hours, >99.5% of the cells died (). By contrast, gentiolactone did not have a cytotoxic effect even at concentrations as high as 500 M. Gentiolactone showed a weaker ability to inhibit LPS-induced TNF- production than helenalin, but it could suppress TNF-, iNOS and Cox-2 expression without any cytotoxic effects. Additionally, gentiolactone inhibited NF-B transcriptional activity but did not inhibit the DNA-binding of NF-B. These findings indicated that gentiolactone inhibited TNF- production in a different manner from sesquiterpene lactones. As the inhibitory effect of gentiolactone on TNF- expression was only evident at 100 M (21.2 g/ml), the use of the intact compound as an anti-inflammatory drug might be difficult. However, by determining the active center of gentiolactone, it should be feasible to design derivatives with usable anti-inflammatory activities.

