We also maximize growth to demonstrate an alternate application of Constrictor; rather than looking for modifications that improve yield of a specific product, it also possible to scan a network to search  for desirable phenotypes. We applied Constrictor with f = 0.8, and f = 0.2 to individual reactions in the core and genome scale model to locate modifications that increase production rate and yield of alternate metabolites. A summary of the targeted reactions in the core model that lead to increased production of ethanol, formate, acetate, or acetaldehyde is depicted in . In the core baseline state obtained from maximizing growth (), neither acetaldehyde, ethanol, nor formate is produced. Scanning with Constrictor reveals expression states that generate 0.41 mol ethanol/mol glucose, approximately 20% of the maximum theoretical yield on glucose . The highest ethanol yields are obtained when either NADH16 or CYBD are restricted to 20% of the baseline value, which forces decreases in oxygen uptake and, as expected, shifts the metabolic network to utilize fermentation pathways. Similar increases in ethanol production are observed when oxygen transport is targeted in either the core network or genome scale networks, with the highest ethanol yield of 1.3 mol/mol glucose (65% of maximum theoretical yield) located in iAF1260. Select ethanol-producing solutions are included in Tables S4-S6 in . Targeting oxygen uptake is expected to shift the network towards fermentation, but constricting many reactions within central metabolism can also increase fermentation product yield. In the TCA cycle for instance, targeting isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDHyr) leads to increased acetate yield in the core model () as well as in both genome scale models (Tables S5-S6 in ). As the genome scale models contain hundreds of exchange reactions (299 in iAF1260 and 312 in iJO1366), a number of potential products can be targeted. Several expression states in the Constrictor scan produce trace amounts of metabolites, such as D-lactate in iJO1366 when ICDHyr is targeted, and in iAF1260 with restrictions in Lipid A disaccaride synthase (LPADSS) or dihydroneopterin aldolase (DHNPA2). When ornithine decarboxylase (ORNDC) is limited, urea is produced; and with fumarase (FUM) limitations in iJO1366 or iAF1260, succinate is produced (Table S5-S6 in ).

