Here, we present an FBA based optimization framework called Constrictor that predicts metabolic interventions by identifying unique expression states that give rise to overproduction of the biochemical target. We show that enforcing various levels of inhibition of flux constraints in metabolic network pathways can provide valuable engineering intervention strategies to achieve the overproduction target. We investigate heterologous ethylene production in , and demonstrate the capability of Constrictor to generate unique  mutants that are predicted to produce high ethylene yields. By restricting single enzymatic reactions or combinations of reactions, thousands of possible network states are revealed. In both reduced and genome scale models of  metabolism, alternate expression states predict improvements in ethylene yield. By limiting individual reactions, disproportionate shifts in the network are forced, which reveal alternate solutions that highlight network characteristics. Constricting many reactions simultaneously provides a means to scan a larger portion of the solution space, which can be used to infer reactions or metabolites that have large impact on ethylene yield. In this analysis of ethylene production, we conclude that glucose and oxygen cannot be balanced at their maximum allowable values to achieve the highest ethylene yield. Thus anaerobic limitations result in ethanol production in the baseline networks. Constrictor suggests that the imbalance in the network can be remedied by reducing flux through glycolysis. Depending on the model, the highest ethylene yields are obtained for different target reactions and different restriction factor values, which emphasizes the importance of using a high throughput experimental approach, such as MAGE , to test a range of expression states in several potential target genes simultaneously. We also demonstrate the ability of Constrictor to search a network for targets that improve production of other metabolites. With biomass as the objective, we scanned and located major and minor expression states that increase export of formate, ethanol, acetate, or acetaldehyde. In genome scale models, additional products were detected in trace amounts by applying Constrictor to restrict individual reactions.

