North China is one of the regions in China with the highest frequency of haze events , . According to the PM monitoring in Beijing during 2001 and 2003,the average 12-hour PM mass concentration reached as high as 263.2 g/m and PM ranged from 107 to 181 g/m . Another research showed the average PM annual mass concentration were 124 g/m in Beijing and 141 g/m in Tianjin between 2009 to 2010 . Both 24-hour and annual PM concentrations reported are far higher than the limits of NAAQS. Air pollution has increased as a function of population and the diversification of socio-economic activities. However, there have been few studies on PM and PM with respect to their chemical composition and seasonal variation . The majority of research on this region has focused on the composition , seasonal variation  and source of the particulate matter . Generally, carbonaceous aerosol is the most abundant component of PM mass, and the main ions were NH, SO and NO , , . Different dominant mechanisms for the formation of SO, NO and Cl are found in the summer and the spring . Various aerosol speciations associated with PM pollution display a distinct seasonality . Remote sources, which were primarily soil derived Ca, Mg and Al, contribute a major part of the PM pollution in spring , . Seasonal peaks of organic carbon were commonly found in winter due to the high usage of coal for heating in the region , . Simulation showed that the PM concentration was sensitive to NH emission . In general, water-soluble ion species, including Na, NH, K, Mg, Ca, Cl, NO, and SO, comprise 25%-50% of the aerosol mass predominantly in the form of sulfates, ammoniums and nitrates . Water-soluble ions can scatter or absorb both incoming solar radiation and thermal radiation emitted from the Earths surface, thus directly change the radiation balance . Previous studies mostly focused on a single size particle either in Beijing or in Tianjin , . Only a few studies addressed PM concentrations across the major cities in North China Plain . In addition, these studies seldom referred to the national atmospheric background status at the same period. This study, derived from a national atmospheric monitoring program in 2013, focuses on the water-soluble ion compositions and their variation in particulate matter in 3 metropolises in North China area. Also data from national atmospheric background sites are referred at the same sampling periods.

