Echocardiographic morphometric features recorded on videotape, as well as demographic data (sex, age at initial contact), were collected at the beginning of our study. Echocardiograms were performed using commercially available echocardiographic equipment with available transducers. Two dimensional, M-mode, and Doppler echocardiographic images were obtained at the subcostal, parasternal, apical, and suprasternal notch views. Defect diameters were measured as the mean interruption of ventricular septum of 2 orthogonal planes. Color Doppler flow mapping was also used to judge whether the shunt flow was diffuse. Left ventricular end-diastolic dimension (LVDD) was measured from M-mode tracings according to published guidelines , and then compared to the normal dimension of healthy children in China at the same age to judge whether it was increased . A pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP)>36 mmHg or mean pulmonary artery pressure (PAPm)>25 mmHg at rest was diagnosed as pulmonary hypertension (PH) . According to the different extensions, PMVSDs were classified into perimembranous inlet (PMI), perimembranous outlet (PMO), and perimembranous trabecular (PMT) type . Perimembranous confluent (PMC) type was defined as a large defect with extension to both inlet and outlet parts of the ventricular septum. The presence of ATVMS was graded as grade 0, absent; grade 1, tumor-like shape formed but not attached to the top of the tricuspid valve tissue; or grade 2, a tumor-like bulge shaped toward the right ventricle. Tricuspid regurgitation was described as mild, moderate, or severe, according to a previous study based on color-Doppler echocardiograph findings . Some patients had associated complications during the follow-up, including left ventricular-to-right atrial shunt (LV-RA shunt), subaortic ridge with or without left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (LVOTO), aortic valve prolapse (AVP) with or without aortic regurgitation (AR) and hypertrophy of right ventricle outflow tract with or without right ventricular outflow tract obstruction (RVOTO). Indications for operation were 1) severe congestive heart failure (CHF) and echocardiography showing a PASP 60 mmHg; 2) chronic cardiac insufficiency for an extended time with poor feeding, tachypnea, poor weight gain, repeated pulmonary infection and continuous PH (36<PASP<60 mmHg) for 6 months; 3) chronic cardiac insufficiency without PH, where the defect size did not change significantly after at least 2 years' follow-up when patients have reached school age; 4) associated complications resulting in obstruction of the left or right ventricle, or moderate AR. Surgery was arranged when at least 1 of the indications was diagnosed.

