The differential protein spots were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI TOF/TOF MS) as described . Briefly, the differential protein spots were manually excised, in-gel digested with trypsin, then dried in a vacuum. Mass spectra were obtained on an Ultraflex II MALDI-TOF/TOF Mass Spectrometer (Bruker Daltonics, Bremen, Germany). The spectra were analyzed with the flexAnalysis software (Version 3.2, Bruker-Daltonics, USA) and searched against the taxonomy of fungi (1,941,581 sequences) in the non-redundant NCBI database (NCBInr 20130706, including 26,682,258 sequences and 9,281,362,451 residues) using Mascot software (Version 2.3) as described . The peptide mass fingerprint (PMF) search parameters were: 300 ppm tolerance as the maximum mass error, MH monoisotopic mass values, allowance of oxidation (M) modifications, allowance for one missed cleavage, trypsin as the enzyme, and fixed modification of cysteine by carboxymethylation (carbamidomethylation, C). In addition, an tandem MS(MS/MS) ion search in the LIFT mode was performed under the above search conditions except with a ion tolerance of 0.3 Da. Good matches were classified as those having a threshold score (confidence intervals >95%) >75 for PMF and >45 for MS/MS. The identification focused on the protein spots with higher Mascot scores, maximum peptide coverage, matched peptide sequences from different species, particular position on the 2-DE gel, and with identification results obtained from both PMF- and MS/MS-based searches. Additionally, a Decoy database search was also performed to estimate the percentage of false-positive identifications for all samples. Protein identifications determined to be false with the decoy database were excluded from further study. Detailed information about the protein identification is provided in -. In addition, an in-house Blast-P search at NCBI (.) was performed to confirm all of the identifications and find their homologous proteins.

