Because transfected HEK293 cells are a rather artificial cell model, we tested different human immune cells that are naturally sensitive to endotoxins: we stimulated the monocytic cell line THP-1, primary monocytes,  differentiated monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDCs), and primary CD1c dendritic cells (CD1c DCs) with very low LPS concentrations. As shown in , even 0.02 ng/ml LPS was able to significantly stimulate the production of cytokines. However, we observed some vast differences between the individual cell types in terms of both the types of cytokines they produced and their sensitivity to LPS. THP-1 cells produced only minuscule amounts of IL-8 upon stimulation with the highest LPS-concentration used (2 ng/ml), whereas moDCs secreted considerable amounts of IL-6, IL-8, TNF- and IL-12 at the same high LPS concentration. In contrast, human monocytes and CD1c DCs were much more sensitive to LPS, as 0.2 ng/ml LPS was sufficient to induce the release of all tested cytokines, except for IL-12 in monocytes. One important observation in this context is that, in both monocytes and CD1c DCs, statistically significant amounts of IL-8 were measured in response to 0.02 ng/ml LPS. Moreover, CD1c DCs additionally produced IL-6 upon activation under these conditions. In contrast, significant release of IL-1 was observed only from monocytes treated with 2 ng/ml LPS, whereas lower LPS concentrations had no significant effect, and none of the other cells types secreted IL-1 in our experimental setup (). IL-1 is expressed as a biologically inactive 31-kDa pro-form that requires post-translational processing by caspase-1 to generate the biologically active cytokine IL-1 , . To investigate whether low LPS concentrations would stimulate the post-translational processing of pro-IL-1 or rather induce IL-1 expression at the transcriptional level, we analysed IL-1 mRNA after 6 hours of LPS stimulation (). As IL-1 mRNA expression directly correlates with IL-1 secretion, we assume that low LPS concentrations regulate IL-1 secretion at the transcriptional rather than the post-translational level.

