Further characterization of PocR using the methods described in this paper may prove to be informative, not only in further elucidation of the regulatory mechanism behind MCP formation, but also toward creating novel MCP expression phenotypes. For example, while in our studies we use a low concentration of aTc to induce PocR expression, we speculate that  expression levels can be modulated to either change the average number of MCPs formed per cell or vary the size of the MCPs, both of which would be of interest for utilizing the Pdu MCP as a nanobioreactor. It is also desirable to develop methods of controlling MCP expression and formation in a biotechnological context, absent its native regulatory molecule 1,2-PD. To our surprise, the Pdu MCPs formed by PocR overexpression are morphologically normal and indistinguishable from those formed in response to 1,2-PD. The robust formation of MCPs in response to different transcriptional dynamics, in the case of PocR overexpression, than in the native context raises questions as to the mechanism governing their formation. Further studies are required to determine which aspects of P transcriptional regulation are important in regulating these properties. The insights gained from the regulation of the Pdu MCP are likely generalizable to other MCPs, and may lead to the discovery of new MCP systems. While genetic analysis predicts the existence of many different MCP systems, only a fewmost notably the carboxysome, Eut, and Pdu MCPswere discovered experimentally, likely due to the requirement of a specific metabolite for expression. Many other systems are predicted using bioinformatics, and for one system a protein shell has even been generated in  , but the shell structures and functions in the native hosts are still largely unknown. The approaches described herein provide two high-throughput alternatives to screening a library of metabolites for MCP formation by low-throughput techniques such as TEM. One approach is to search bacterial genomes for operons containing MCP shell homologs accompanied by homologs of the positive regulator PocR. These MCPs may then be expressed and characterized via the heterologous expression of their regulatory protein alone, in the absence of their unknown natively-inducing metabolite(s). Alternatively, a reporter of the activity of the putative promoter region of the homologous operon, analogous to the transcriptional fusion used in this study, can be screened by flow cytometry or another high-throughput technique for activation in response to a library of metabolites. Promising candidates can then be further screened for MCP formation.

