Restricting these subsystems does not reveal any expression states with yields higher than those found through individual reaction modification, but simultaneously modifying multiple reactions can provide a descriptive profile of the network. Targeting nine reactions in glycolysis () gives rise to 65,536 expression states, which generate eight unique flux vectors in the core model (). By arranging the unique solutions in the form of a heatmap, key network characteristics are highlighted. We observe that, as yield decreases (top to bottom rows) the percent change in flux tends to decrease for most reactions. However, as the reactions that are not specifically targeted are allowed to vary between the original unlimited bounds, certain reactions experience increases in flux in response to Constrictor modifications. Reactions for which flux increases include G6PDH2r, GND, RPI, and PGL in the pentose phosphate pathway, which increase by a similar percentage for all expression states, suggesting that flux will divert through the pentose phosphate pathway for any restriction in glycolysis. The reactions that differ significantly between high and low yields are of particular interest. Flux through ATPS4r increases by a lower percentage in the solutions with improved yield than it does for the solutions with decreased yield: the lower yield solutions produce more ATP. This observation, combined with the fact that acetate exchange (EX_ac(e)) and acetate kinase (ACKr) also decrease more in the lower yield solutions, points to the importance of ATP/ADP balance. In this network, PFK, ACKr, and ATPS4r produce ATP, while the arginine biosynthesis pathway consumes ATP. When glycolysis is restricted, less carbon is available for processing by pyruvate metabolism, and acetate production decreases. This further limits ATP production, causing ATP synthase to balance the ADP produced by the arginine biosynthesis pathway. Thus, ATPS4r flux increases slightly with minor restrictions in glycolysis and continues to increase with major restrictions.

