Experiments on nectar dehydration were conducted during May 2013 at the Tropical Station La Gamba, Puntarenas, Costa Rica. We used male bees as they can easily be captured in sufficient numbers and cannot sting, facilitating handling and thus minimizing handling time (Field work permission granted by the Ministerio del Ambiente y Energa, Sistema Nacional de Areas de Conservacin, Costa Rica). Male  and , like many euglossine males, can be easily attracted to scent baits where they were captured using hand nets and transferred into Eppendorf vials with breathing holes. After return to the field station, they were individually marked with Opalithplttchen (Graze, Germany) of different colors and shapes and released together into a mesh cage (454545 cm) outfitted with perching opportunities (branches with leaves) and feeders in the shape of artificial flowers (see ), the latter of which were removed each evening to avoid fermentation. They were trained to take sugar-water (sucrose dissolved in water, 30%w/w) from the artificial flowers over the course of three to five days. The experiments began when all remaining bees (: n = 10; : n = 12) were sufficiently familiar with the cage situation and could be expected to show normal behavior (i.e. not constantly flying against the mesh walls searching for a way out and not spending hours trying to pry the Opalithplttchen off the mesosoma). At 0510 hours, before first morning activity, artificial flowers were placed in the cage. All flowers contained the same concentration of sugar-water solution. Observation began with first drinking activity between 0525 and 0535 hours and lasted five hours. The duration (in minutes) of time spent drinking and that spent tongue flicking was noted for each individual. After the observation period each bee was captured, and a sample of its crop content was obtained by gently squeezing the metasoma and taking up the regurgitated droplet using glass microcapillaries (2 l). Bees were immediately released back into the cage where they were allowed to feed freely for the rest of the day. Samples of crop content were diluted by four with distilled water in order to obtain a sufficient amount of liquid to be measured with a handheld refractometer (Mller, Germany) corrected for temperature. Resulting values were corrected for the dilution. Six different sugar concentrations lying within the possible feeding range of orchid bees were offered on consecutive days in the following order: 40.8%30.0%34.6%45.2%25.0% and 50.0% sugar (order determined randomly with the restriction that the lowest and highest sugar solution would be tested last). Each sugar solution was freshly prepared on the respective morning, and measured for its sugar concentration using the handheld refractometer prior to filling the artificial flowers with the mixture. Concentrations deviated from the targeted 5%-steps (three cases, 40.8 instead of 40%, 34.6 instead of 35% and 45.2 instead of 45%) when adjustment of sugar concentration was not accomplished in time before the feeders had to be exposed. All ten  and twelve  were tested on each of the different concentrations. Additionally, samples from the artificial flowers were taken in the evenings to monitor evaporative water loss from the provided sugar-water.

