All statistical analyses were performed using the SPSS software package (SPSS for Windows, Version 13.0. Chicago, SPSS Inc.). The main purpose of our analysis was to find demographic and echocardiographic variables that could be used to stratify PMVSD patients according to their probability of SC. A set of 11 baseline variables that were considered both medically relevant for SC prediction and easy to determine in usual clinical practice was identified. To extract the maximum information from our study population, we constructed our algorithm using the Cox proportional hazards model. This model has several advantages over other techniques, such as logistic regression: It accounts for variable duration of follow-up, censoring of subjects, proportionality of event occurrence, and time-to-event . Our model can be used to generate estimates of SC probability of PMVSD over a specified time frame (e.g. 1 year and 3 years) and are useful for determining appropriate treatments for PMVSD patients. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed by Cox regression. Parameters that were significant in the univariate analysis were entered in the multivariate analysis. Significant independent variables contributing to the prognosis of PMVSD patients were evaluated using stepwise selection methods. To increase the usefulness of the algorithm in clinical practice, the -coefficient of each variable that independently predicted SC was standardized and rounded so a simple scoring system was developed. The general method for scoring scheme derivation is described in . A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to measure the discrimination of the prediction system. Patients were divided into three groups based on the distribution of their score values and SC probabilities. Survival curves of the three groups were constructed by Kaplan-Meier methods and analyzed with the log-rank test. The scoring system was then used to evaluate its validity for other patients with PMVSD, calculating the individual probability of each patient to have SC.

