During a systematic genetic screen for mutations affecting development of catecholaminergic (CA) neurons in zebrafish, we identified the  mutation, which was unique in that it was the only mutation isolated which appeared to cause enhanced differentiation of selected CA neuronal groups. In the screen, which was based on detecting  mRNA expression as marker for CA neurons, the  mutation gave rise to a stronger and expanded whole mount in situ hybridization (WISH) signal for  expression, likely reflecting higher  mRNA levels and potentially also an elevated number of DA and NA neurons. At 1 and 2 days post fertilization (dpf), ()  mutants display a  expression pattern indistinguishable from wild-type siblings. At 3 dpf, a stronger  hybridization signal for  expression was observed in the diencephalic DA cell clusters of  mutants. This phenotype was especially pronounced in the caudal hypothalamic diencephalic dopaminergic cluster 7 (DC7; , arrowhead in I, J). Most other DA groups in the forebrain developed normally up to 4 dpf, with the exception of the pretectal cluster, which showed a minor increase in stain intensity (), and the retinal amacrine DA neurons, which appear to be severely reduced in  mutant embryos (). We also analyzed NA neuronal clusters, which revealed that the  signal for medulla oblongata (MO) and sympathetic NA neurons appeared to be stronger in  mutant embryos ( and asterisk in J). The NA neurons of the locus coeruleus (LC) did not appear to be affected in  mutants. Whole mount immunofluorescence detection of TH was performed and confocal stacks representing the whole ventral diencephalon and rostral hindbrain were analyzed for cell numbers of diencephalic DA cell clusters and the NA cells of the LC at 4 dpf (). As DC 4, 5 and 6 are difficult to distinguish due to close anatomical location, neurons of these groups were combined for analysis. The cell counts were analyzed for statistical significant differences in mutant embryos using the Mann-Whitney test. In  mutant embryos, a strong increase of DA cell numbers was only found for the caudal hypothalamic DC7 DA group (p = 0.008). DA neurons of DC7 showed a more than 2-fold increase in number in  mutants when compared to wild-type siblings (). Milder increases in cell number were found in DA DC1 (p = 0.032) and 3 (p = 0.008; ). The cell numbers in other DA cell clusters like DC2, 4, 5, 6 and the LC were not significantly different between  embryos and controls.

