To concentrate the  cells from water samples, two different isolation methods were compared: the microfilter technique and the low-rotation centrifugation method. For the microfilter technique, water samples (10 ml) were spiked with varying concentrations (CFU/ml) of  and filtrated through a cellulose ester membrane filter (Biosart 100 Monitore, 0.45-m pore size, Sartorius, Gttingen, Germany) using a vacuum pump (Typ MP 1 Pfeiffer, Asslar, Germany). After filtration, membrane filters were carefully removed with sterile forceps, and bacteria were rinsed off the filters using 10 ml of 0.9% NaCl. Subsequently, the filter was put into an Erlenmeyer flask containing the rinsing fluid, and the flask was shaken for 2 min on a vortex mixer to remove bacteria adhered to the membrane. For low-rotation centrifugation, 100-ml samples, spiked with varying concentrations (CFU/ml) of , were centrifuged for 15 min at 5141  in Falcon tubes. The supernatant was discarded, and bacterial pellets were resuspended in 0.9% NaCl to a total volume of 1 ml. All experiments were performed with two different types of water. Pond water was collected from a water pond in Isernhagen, Germany, and tap water was collected from the public water supply in Hannover, Germany. For control purposes, 0.9% NaCl was included. A chemical analysis of a pond water sample was commissioned (Umwelt Analyse Zentrum, Filderstadt, Germany), and data from the chemical water analyses of tap water were provided from municipal utilities (Stadtwerke Hannover, Germany). In addition, a microbiological water analysis was performed in the laboratory for water analyses of the University of Veterinary Medicine Hannover, Foundation, Germany. To test a more varied selection of water types, rain water (collected in Hannover, Germany) and commercially available bottled still mineral water (EDEKA, Hamburg, Germany) were included in the EMA-qPCR experiments. The water samples were spiked with various amounts of viable or mixed (1:10 and 1:100, live/dead ratios)  cells as required. Three independent experiments were performed.

