The baseline FBA solution in the core model with aerobic conditions predicts an ethylene yield of 0.35 mol ethylene/mol glucose. Reactions carrying non-zero flux in the baseline solution are referred to as active reactions, whereas as those with zero flux are termed inactive reactions. Out of the 114 reactions in the core model, 72 reactions were found to be active in the baseline case, including a flux of 0.3 hr through the biomass reaction. The Constrictor framework was used to iteratively target each reaction in the core ethylene network, with combinations of restrictions to 20% and 80% of the baseline flux. Individual modification of each of the 66 reversible reactions and 48 irreversible reactions in the core metabolic network would generate 360 expression states or FBA studies, as there are four possible expression states for each reversible reaction and two expression states for every irreversible reaction. However, Constrictor does not target the 42 reactions found to be inactive in the baseline solution, since the optimization of reaction network with modifications to inactive reactions results in solutions identical to the baseline case. Applying Constrictor to the remaining 72 active reactions gives rise to 222 expression states. While 12 of these expression states converge to the baseline solution and another 196 expression states decrease ethylene yield, 14 expression states positively impact the ethylene yield with respect to the baseline solution (). The expression states reveal a range (49%) of elevated ethylene yields when compared to baseline case (). For majority of Constrictor modifications, restrictions to target reactions result in a proportional reduction in flux throughout the network, as demonstrated by the linear relationship between yield and production for the majority of expression states (). However, certain expression states impact the network in a nonlinear fashion, causing disproportionate shifts in flux that can increase yield. These off-diagonal solutions highlight imbalances in the network, as described below for two high yield solutions.

