The analysis of expression of several embryonic patterning genes as well as neural differentiation markers by  hybridization analysis revealed increased transcript levels in  mutant embryos for some but not all analyzed genes in embryos beginning from the second day of development. The lack of an early phenotype of  mutant embryos is likely caused by maternal rescue during the first day of development. At 3 dpf, in  mutants elevated WISH stain intensities and thus likely mRNA levels were detected for , , , , , , ,  and FGF receptor genes, while gene expression levels of  and  were indistinguishable from WT siblings. These observations raised the question why only a subset of mRNA species accumulated in  mutants. Gene expression levels initially are defined by the rate of transcription. First, the amount of generated mRNA depends on the gene and developmental stage. Second, the half-life of each mRNA species is different as e.g. the removal of longer poly (A) requires more time . Third, mRNA decay involves the function of deadenylating and decapping protein complexes (reviewed in ). The recruitment processes of mRNAs targeted for decay to these complexes remain poorly understood . Different mRNA species may display different affinities toward protein complexes involved in mRNA decay. In vertebrates Cnot7 and Cnot8 are paralogs of yeast Caf1 , , . In yeast, Ccr4 is associated to the Ccr4-Not complex via Caf1 , , . Cnot7 may compensate loss of Cnot8 function. Addressing the functions of both Caf1 paralogs, Aslam et al.  performed siRNA mediated knockdown of Cnot8 and Cnot7 in MCF7 breast cancer cells. Subsequent microarray analysis revealed that single knock down of either component resulted in alteration in expression of few genes only, while combined knockdown caused altered expression in more than two hundred genes. Together, this argues that Cnot7 and Cnot8 may function redundantly in MCF7 cells. This notion is further supported by the finding that  knockout mice are viable with a spermatogenesis defect . Expression analysis in mouse neural tissues also revealed differential expression of CNOT7 and CNOT8 in different tissues and downregulation of CNOT8 during differentiation . Our finding of multiple changes in gene expression levels in  mutants combined with lethality of the mutation indicate that both paralogs, Cnot8 and Cnot7, are not entirely redundant in function during development.

