Our previous study identified a series of compounds with cytotoxic effects on prostate cancer cell lines . Among them, CFS-1686 showed the highest capacity for inhibiting cell proliferation. The current study demonstrated that this compound has a different mechanism from CPT to induced cell cycle arrest at intra-S phase, resulting in late and light DNA damage. It showed 4-fold higher activity for the inhibition of Top1 than CPT in DNA relaxation assays. Unlike CPT, CFS-1686 had no activity on Top1 in DNA cleavage assays, but nevertheless it reduced CPT-induced DNA cleavage of Top1 in a dose-dependent manner. We concluded that CFS-1686 might affect the interaction of Top1 with DNA to preclude formation of Top1-DNA complexes. This speculation was further supported by computer docking simulations showing a potential CFS-1686 binding site in the Top1-DNA interacting interface.

The most interesting issue raised by the current study is why CFS-1686 could cause such different outcomes from CPT in cell cycle arrest and DNA damage. To address that, we first considered DNA duplication after thymine-induced synchronization. The synchronized PC3 cells stayed mainly at G1-S phase (). DNA replication might already start at this stage (). Reasonably, many Top1 molecules might already sit on the DNA to perform its cleavage and re-ligation for relaxing DNA supercoiling generated by replication (). As CPT intercalates into Top1-DNAcc to stabilize this complex, the replication fork will collide with it to generate a DNA double-strand break, resulting in the maximum checkpoint response within 2 hr (). Instead of acting on Top1-DNA cc, CFS-1686 might affect the interaction of Top1 with DNA to inhibit Top1-DNA binding, eventually reducing Top1-mediated DNA relaxation (). We hypothesized that DNA replication can go forward at the early stage after CFS-1686 exposure, until the replication machinery requests Top1 to relax DNA supercoiling (). Without enough Top1 to relax the DNA supercoil form, the stress generated by DNA replication might cause DNA damage and activate the cell cycle checkpoint (). Thus, the cell cycle arrest induced by CFS-1686 appeared later, and the magnitude of DNA damage was lighter than that of CPT ().

Another interesting issue is the modified DNA cleavage assay in the current study. Unlike the pilot method , we used 3000 bp of linear DNA as a substrate of Top1 instead of 180 bp of short DNA, and used 6% natural PAGE instead of denatured sequencing gel to run electrophoresis. Using natural PAGE resolved DNA into a slow and fast migration band, which represented a relaxed and a compacted form of DNA, respectively (). CPT-induced DNA cleavage only occurred in the compacted DNA (), reflecting that Top1 only acts on the compacted DNA and not on the relaxed DNA. In addition, we did not observe any specific sizes among the cleavage products of DNA other than the smear and the faint band on the gel (), which is different from previous findings . This result suggested no sequence preference for CPT to interact with Top1-DNAcc for the long length supercoil DNA.

